and since it was so low fat I was just
like never feeling satisfied I gained 15
kilos in a very short amount of time and
I could be up at some point I was eating
up to 5,000 calories but I guess like
the 3,500 to 4,000 inch was like more
than average whatever to do how was that
in response to freelee's advice at that
stage when you were thinking that you
know 4,000 calories was fine all you
need to stop yourself because if you
don't do that you're not doing the diet
fight or if you just need one day not
enough or you don't feel cool all the
time you're gonna get metabolic damage
like stupid [ __ ] like that yeah it's
like kind of religious you could compare
to some kind of religious belief where
you have to like sing for your past or
something like that you actually were
already interested in raw foodism before
you got involved with freelee's diets so
for you you actually went from a raw
food diet to the raw so Florida yeah I
actually have the beginning I didn't
even understand her accent so yeah sure
I'm sure you've improved your English by
listening to durianrider and freely
swearing a lot you learned a lot of
curse words learning English with
freelee and durianrider
- yen vote compared did you learn a
little bit of how to read and write the
Thai language like you know I know I
know it's hard but yeah okay well that's
the funny thing so most people say
reading and writing Thai is very very
difficult which you can see just from
the science like it's it's not simple
but I mean I'm in the one class of
people for whom it's easy I had already
studied the ancient languages so Pali
and Sanskrit are these ancient languages
for the the region so it's really funny
but what all the other foreigners find
difficult and even what type eople find
difficult in the reading rich for me was
easy so it's huge advantage with the
reading writing system and I say to
people well it's like if you go to
Europe and you've already studied Latin
and Greek you know and then learning
here but of course everything's so much
easier because I had to study Latin at
school so I got to a level where I was
starting to do like the original text
like Caesar and that kind of stuff and I
like it is the basis for everything in
Europe basically well okay but me so
that's really interesting so Lia I
didn't know this about you you've got
like five languages okay but what cuz
it's how like I know I know the Roman
Rite in Japanese and we're not we're not
counting Thai but if you wanted to you
could add when when you're applying for
a university you could add tied your
listen you can exaggerate that one it's
okay but that's no but that's
interesting so your are you are you
twenty years old now or what you're
about
okay well look you've got a you've got a
lot of advantages in life then that's
great I mean I'm happy I thing is I say
I'm happy for you
actually I'm sad for you because I know
how much work it is to study languages
you know and and
and you know with with any one of those
languages you don't know how much will
it be part of your future or what have
you
okay cool so look the the subject for
this this conversation I want to talk to
you a little bit about was um you know
gaining weight on high fruit diet which
is in some ways a taboo topic I'd like
to think just during the last yeah just
during the last one year though I think
people have gotten a lot more honest
about it like it's gone from being a
secret to being some people recognized
as important I need to need to talk
about so mostly I'm gonna I'm gonna
listen to you I'll ask some questions to
prod you along I would say in general I
think the people for whom the high carb
low fat diet works the best are the
people who do not follow the diet you
know like people who just in general
like if in general you think eating a
lot of fruit is good and eating a lot of
vegetables is good but you don't
actually follow this diet you're not
you're not for example eating 3,000
calories a day with no exercise or what
have you but you you just have a
sensible approach then that can work but
I so am interesting story I'll just ask
you how did you first get into high carb
low fat or high fruit because I think
you had a you had a fruitarian period
right and and what your experience was
yeah I came from the headaches that I
had before so constant headaches
migraines so for me it was more about
health it was never about losing weight
I also did not come from a restrictive
past not all and I think that's kinda
important because so many people are
coming from an eating disorder to rot so
for any veganism whatever so also
Freeling during I did not make me go
vegan so I founded raw foods high carb
raw food thing and so when raw vegan for
half a year and I had no weight but I
was and but at the same time I was
really hard to get in enough calories
since
fruit is so low in calories and I was
exercising substantially I was doing
figure skating three times a week
usually between two and three hours at
the time and that in general is just an
active person and we had like sports at
school walking a lot I'm from a village
I like I walked out if you work more or
less suggest a job so that's interesting
though but in your first six months
where you went raw food and we're eating
a lot of fruit obviously during the
first six months though you actually you
actually did not gain weight during that
stage because the excuse right you lost
weight your nose yeah lost a little
today because I was like I had good body
shape I was healthy weight
skinny whatever you want to call it
never had issues with weight so going
raw had I lost a little bit away it's
like a few kilos or so then at some
point I guess I was just like eating to
low fat even at the rough raw vegan diet
so reintroduced oil gained a few kilos
and then after having half a year of
like the the raw foods period I actually
include cooked food into my diet didn't
know oil and since it was solar fat I
was just like never feeling satisfied
again probably if 15 kilos
within a very short amount of time and I
could eat up at some points I was eating
up to 5,000 calories but I guess like
the 3,500 to 4,000 ish was like more to
average what I was eating so just wait
how did you get on the tide then was
that in response to freelee's advice at
that stage when you were thinking that
you know 4,000 calories was fine okay
yeah yeah I actually like I got this
idea in my head that like I had this
unhealthy past of like my headaches and
I was drinking a lot of coffee before
going vegan to be functioning since I
couldn't sleep well with the headaches
and it was like a downward spiral and it
was just like not much to do um so I
thought oh my god it's probably I have
to pay for my past and oh you need to
stuff yourself because if you don't do
that you're not doing the diet right or
if you just eat one day not enough or
you don't feel full all the time you're
gonna get metabolic damage like stupid
[ __ ] like that
yeah well it's interesting the metabolic
damage for one thing for one thing this
whole approach encourages the mentality
that anytime you feel sleepy anytime you
feel like you don't have enough energy
you should eat more and you should eat
more high calorie high sugar food so
that already to me that's a type of
eating disorder like I know it's not as
serious as you and me it's not as
serious as anorexia but still people who
eat compulsively that way were you know
whenever you're feeling rundown you feel
like you don't you're not energetic to
blame that on oh I need more glucose and
to me that's that's already in healthy
and I think one of the thing nobody else
seems to take this seriously I have I
have at least one video where I do take
this seriously
for these young women there was a young
woman who used to be a model and then
she's not modeling anymore because it
was that so you know the the idea of
metabolic damage like oh well you're
only gaining this weight for a few years
and when you're talking about like age
19 to 21 that's a big part of a young
person's life you know like you know I
mean for me if it's 37 to 39 but you
know then I think you know nobody seems
to take seriously this is something that
really does damage people's lives I mean
the difference between being you know of
being overweight for those couple of
years in the prime of your life it can
influence you in all kinds
for one thing it can destroy your career
in sports if you know if you really are
serious about sport or couldn't you
destroy your career as a model for the
the woman it was a model so you say
people seem to not take that seriously
as if metabolic damage is if it doesn't
matter just because it has this this
fancy name yeah it's like kind of
religious you could compare it to some
kind of religious belief where you have
to like sing for your past or something
like that like repay yeah so for you you
there's some part to it because you
obviously damaged your body in the past
and I I was like suffering from the
headaches but that shouldn't necessarily
show in my weight so just wonder though
your headaches I know you had doctors
involved were those diagnosed as being
related to dairy in your diet or was
there no clear diagnosis because many
migrant headaches are related to you
know cheese and dairy so I just asked my
doctors didn't find anything I went to
different neurologists I'm at some point
I got like I did a headache calendar or
whatever you want to call it where I was
just like for a full year I was filling
out every day how I was feeling and the
headaches also include like light
sensitivity like I couldn't stand if
there was some kind of light in a room
in front of me especially um natural
light was really hard for me I would
sometimes even get like just dizzy from
it like really bad but um okay good so I
was just asking if that was known to be
diet related or further unrelated so
think so correctly from wrong but I
think for some people even though
freelee's diet is crazy they think it
must be working because it helps them
with some other health conditions we
were wrong but I imagine that for you
and for people like you the feeling is
well my headaches got better so the diet
must be good it must be right I must
stick with it and I must believe in all
the other things because there's this
one symptom that got better would you
when you say it's true
yeah like when I first switch to cooked
food
I got a setback I'd say in my headaches
because I was I guess my gut flora
wasn't used to the to the starches and I
had a problem with rice for sometimes
like I remember one time I ain't like I
didn't have fruits I just ate like rice
and vegetables and I got a migraine for
a whole week that was not awesome now I
don't have any problem with it
whatsoever
but yeah like not too for it can improve
other symptoms so people just take it as
a given oh yeah just like I'm just gonna
gain weight for a while but I got better
in like another part of my life that was
wrong before well you know I'm hennya of
the channel hennya mania this is my
interpretation of her but she had a
number of health problems that she
thought the raw tell for diet had cured
so way back so a couple years ago she
was a believer because she switched
diets and then these health problems
went away but eventually what she
figured out was no the health problems
came back again like you know they just
gotten better or temporarily and they
didn't really relate to the diet and the
diet problems but I think for her I
think it took her several years to to
get rid of that impression where she
felt this diet had cured me therefore
this diet has all the answers and
therefore even if it's 3,000 calories a
day she should she should follow the
other elements of the diet for you
correct me wrong you you actually were
already interested in raw foodism before
you got involved with freelee's diet so
for you you actually went from a raw
food diet to the righto for diet okay
that's unusual one yeah yeah I actually
at the beginning I didn't even
understand her accent so yeah I just
couldn't watch the videos for a while
sure I'm sure you've improved your
English by listening to durianrider and
freely swearing a lot you learned a lot
of curse words learning English with
freelee and durianrider
or one or one ingles so at what point
did you did you stop believing or when
did he start to question the kind of
freely program because I mean obviously
the weight gain alone so I mean once she
was at some point you notice that you
were gaining weight was that what made
you question it or was it a totally
unrelated issue not at all because I as
I said before I thought he was just part
of the healing process and like I never
really cared about my weight and since
the diet so to speak gave me like my
life back in assert in a way it didn't
matter to me so then so my question is
then when did you start to question the
the basic ideas that I was built on what
I mean was it just did you read
something or did you just think about it
and what what happened like I always was
aware that like it didn't satisfy me and
I figured out it was like too long fed
because I was doing 1995 five four most
of the time and I think it's way too low
especially for a young person yeah did
you have any of the other problems that
did you lose your period due to the very
low fat content or any other health
problems or no you did okay no I had
generally my helping proof it was just
the weight gain basically Morland all
right because I didn't really put any
weight like my health was so much more
important to me than my weight so I
didn't really care so it was like even
if it was even if I didn't feel
satisfied it gave me so much more else
back for my life about about one year
ago today I think you were still kind of
a true believer in free lien so I mean
good incredibly if I'm wrong
so I'm guessing so during the last year
you've been living in Asia and you've
been thinking about things different
angles so what what what do you think
has changed you can just speak more
generally what do you think is changed
in your life for your understanding
during the last year
it's just more experience looking at
different people not just being
influenced by one person starting to
think bit more myself basic stuff and
also probably that I just didn't really
lose any weight but my health like but
my health was fine so um like I had my
health back any willow doesn't look like
that super awesome effects is it wasn't
just like a week ago that a family felt
better so that we're off that like
priority and the help like the wait one
rice let's say he started to question up
it's interesting I mean I had one person
writing into me one fan of my channel
and she gained a lot of weight I forget
but more than 40 pounds she gained a lot
of weight over a long time on high carb
low fat so over years and years but I
would guess I mean for her the
combination of I have to do this it's
good for my health even if when I look
in the mirror I'm getting fatter and
fatter
instead of getting thinner but also
right well but doesn't exist um but but
then also I mean this is paired with
like emotionally I'm saving the world
like this is morally good this is the
way to save the world this is the way to
cure cancer this is the way to save the
environment so think that combination of
being beautiful being strong saving the
world it's quite a I mean it for a young
person it's influential but actually the
woman who wrote to me she's of more than
40 years old so even for her I mean this
was this was quite a powerful kind of
you know religious experience this
combination of things yeah I'm happy for
you in some ways me at the start of this
conversation I learned you've really
kind of turned around your experience in
Thailand and made it into an educational
opportunity I mean if you're getting a
basis I mean that sincerely studying
Japanese and just having the experience
of living in Thailand I hope you're
getting something positive out of it but
I mean at the time correct me if I'm
wrong but I think you were also
influenced by freely enduring writer I
at the time were you
were you planning to never go back to
high school were you planning to stay
dropped out of school or did it
influence the way you thought about your
own future that way and and your reasons
for being in Thailand or being in Asia
has that changed or not if it if it
hasn't you can say it's fine
lots of things have changed for me like
I always had issues with my family so
there's like a little bit of let's call
it in a very minor way like conflict so
for me going to town was like like
ecstasy like an emotional level so fruit
and for me like since I my experience in
school was the best with the headaches
and changing schools and like the new
school I went was like a complete waste
of time because I didn't have to study
the whole year to pass with decent
grades so it was just like why am I
wasting my time in school when I'm not
even learning anything
combined with the ecstasy feeling of the
of the festival it was it seemed stupid
to me to go back to to that so I stayed
and dropped out of high school went to
travel around Southeast Asia Indonesia
iSight Singapore I cycle through
Malaysia and I came back to to Chiang
Mai since that was like where the happy
feelings came from um obviously when I
came back he wasn't the same as the
festival since there wasn't as many
people it was like more of a normal kind
of thing um yeah look may I just say
it's interesting but I mean now
obviously I mean in some ways it's a
very negative experience in life but
you've gained some new perspective on it
and I mean I think I think you are
actually coming out of this a lot you
know richer for the experience in some
sense but I mean I think it's
interesting with the next Thai fruit
festival coming up I think you'll be
able to look back and compare how
different you are as a person you know
one year ago versus now
and it sounds to me now like you do have
some idea for your own long-term future
and you know Asia and Asian languages
are gonna be a part of it which I can
relate to because that's that's how I
felt when I was younger too you know and
and that you know ultimately getting an
education and getting a job as a part of
it but you know meanwhile is to say
other people are ice do you see them
dropping at a school talked about that
repeatedly on my channel and kind of
worshiping this being on vacation
forever or thing it's like well you know
somebody somebody has to be a medical
doctor somebody has to go to school and
work in a hospital somebody you know all
the things that make life possible
all those respectable roles all that
responsibility it's still it's still
waiting for you and you know not
everyone can live like durianrider and
not everyone wants to so yeah I try to
talk about that stuff okay
pretty horrible I mean from drug use to
welfare and everything it's just
recently that he like turned his life
around
yeah I've said that on my channel many
times like if you were my own brother
you know I would just say I'm so happy
for you like I'm so happy you got off
the drugs
I'm so happy you're not homeless I'm so
happy you're not in jail and that would
be hit but he's in a very strangely
influential position over people who you
know one way or another are kind of weak
enough to fall under his spell which you
know people get like hooked on to them
when they were in some kind of like
emotionally unstable place and that's
why they look up to them because they
they give them direction they give them
like hope they give them a mission to
give them purpose so that's why I think
also people are so like so extreme in
their way of like sticking to them even
if they say something completely
ridiculous and disrespectful or or even
if they just gained 20 pounds or gained
15 kilos or were they they're ignoring
that it's so much because it like you
think it gave you so much money value
right Wow
once it again like attitude of gratitude
[ __ ] up harden to [ __ ] up no excuses
just do it that kind of like right and
that that also leads ultimately to
victim blaming because if you're fat
it's your fault it can't be freelee's
fault it can't be the diet's fault you
should feel bad etc etc yeah so I'll
just measure manipulated or anything or
just like made some believe or or just
you know you may have a job where you
can't burn 3000 calories a day you know
not everyone is doing long-distance
cycling I I've mentioned in my channel I
used to do long-distance cycling in
Thailand and it's true you can burn a
ton of calories just the sweating even
more than the muscularis is the heat but
you know if you if you sit at a desk
reading books all day you can't you
can't hold down that place though and I
was just gonna measure I think it's
funny the contrast because many of the
people who endorse freelee and
durianrider where they they kind of
promote them and they they want their
own YouTube channel to be promoted to
their friends they don't follow the high
carb low fat diet they're vegans like
all the body builders including the ones
who are personal friends with
durianrider
they're all tracking their macros you
know keeping their calorie count low
keeping their protein intake high so
it's a protein limited carbohydrate
limited calorie diet that they're not
eating unlimited carbohydrates they're
eating limited cover and I'm not you
know for me the main thing that's
appealing about having a lot of fruit in
your diet is that you're doing less
cooking and for me I live alone I don't
really want to cook a complex pasta and
then sit and eat it alone you know like
to me it's kind of one so I just say
there were other reasons that have
nothing no weight loss you know for why
I eat a lot of fruit or why why other
people might be drawn to a fruitarian or
high carb high carb low fat lifestyle so
hmm
anyway cool I wanted to keep this this
interview relatively short so shall we
stop it here from my perspective I'm
gonna see you in Chiang Mai in a couple
of weeks because we're both going to be
in Thailand
so I'm eight I may wear a disguise so
that you know during Ryder's followers
don't have me down so I don't know I'll
get I'll get some get some big
sunglasses or something but in that
great great talking Yulia and again I'm
learned a lot of things about you
talking now that I didn't know before
and I'm really happy for you so you know
and maybe both of us maybe Japanese we
part of our futures and maybe Thailand
to be part of our futures but you know
stay in touch that I hope all the time
on my channel though the whole hard it
is to know five people you can cooperate
with and you know how hard is to keep in
touch with people when you're a nomad
when you live in countries so I hope
you're one of the five people I still
know five years from now